One of the most powerful features
of SQL is its ability to filter.
In this video, we're going to learn how
this helps us make better queries and
select more specific pieces
of data from a database.
Filtering is selecting data
that match a certain condition.
Think of filtering as a way of
only choosing the data we want.
Let's say we wanted to select
apples from a fruit cart.
Filtering allows us to specify what
kind of apples we want to choose.
When we go buy apples, we might explicitly
say, "Choose only apples that are fresh."
This removes apples that aren't
fresh from the selection.
This is a filter!
As a security analyst, you might filter a
log-in attempts table to find all attempts
from a specific country.
This could be done by applying
a filter on the country column.
For example, you could filter to just
return records containing Canada.
Before we get started, we need to focus on an
important part of the syntax of SQL.
Let's learn about operators.
An operator is a symbol or
keyword that represents an operation.
An example of an operator would
be the equal to operator.
For example,
if we wanted to find all records that
have USA in the country
column, we use country = 'USA'
To filter a query in SQL, we simply
add an extra line to the SELECT and FROM
statement we used before.
This extra line will use
a WHERE clause.
In SQL, WHERE indicates the condition for a filter.
After the keyword WHERE, the specific
condition is listed using operators.
So if we wanted to find all of the login
attempts made in the United States,
we would create this filter.
In this particular condition, we're
indicating to return all records that
have a value in the country
column that is equal to USA.
Let's try putting it
all together in SQL.
We're going to start with
selecting all the columns from the
log_in_attempts table. And
then add the WHERE filter.
Don't forget the semicolon!
This tells us we finished
the SQL statement.
Now, let's run this query!
Because of our filter, only the rows
where the country of the log-in
attempt was USA are returned.
In the previous example, the condition for
our filter was based simply on returning
records that are equal
to a particular value.
We can also make our conditions
more complex by searching for
a pattern instead of an exact word.
For example, in the employees table,
we have a column for office.
We could search for records in this
column that match a certain pattern.
Perhaps we might want all
offices in the East building.
To search for a pattern, we used the
percentage sign to act as a wildcard for
unspecified characters.
If we ran a filter for 'East%', this would
return all records that start with East --
for example, the offices East-120,
East-290, and East-435.
When searching for
patterns with the percentage sign,
we cannot use the equals operator.
Instead, we use another operator, LIKE.
LIKE is an operator used with WHERE to
search for a pattern in a column.
Since LIKE is an operator,
similar to the equal sign,
we use it instead of the equal sign.
So, when our goal is to return all values
in the office column that start with the word
East, LIKE would
appear in a WHERE clause.
Let's go back to the example in
which we wanted to filter for
log-in attempts made in the United States.
Imagine that we realize that our database
contains inconsistencies with how
the United States is represented.
Some entries use US while others use USA.
Let's get into SQL and
apply this new type of filter with LIKE.
We're going to start with
the same first two lines of
code because we want to select all
columns from the log-in attempts table.
And we're going to add a filter with
LIKE so that records will be returned if
they contain a value in the country
column beginning with the characters US.
This includes both US and USA.
Let's run this query to check if
the output changes. This returns all
the entries where the user location
was in the United States.
And now we can use the LIKE clause to
filter columns based on a pattern!
Wow, we've already learned how to get
very precise with our database and
get exactly the data we
need with one single query.
I'm excited for what's next!